former regimental reconnaissance company
and u.s army special forces soldier mike
banning
gerard butler is a secret service agent
assigned to be the chief of the u.s
presidential detail
maintaining a personal friendly
relationship with president benjamin
asher
aaron eckhart first lady margaret ashley
judd
and their son connor finley jacobson on
a snowy christmas drive from camp david
to a campaign fundraiser
the car transporting the first family
spins out of control on an icy bridge
banning pulls asher from the vehicle but
fails to save margaret as she falls to
her death
18 months later banning works at the
treasury department
having been removed from the
presidential detail
during asher's meeting with south korean
prime minister lee tae-woo
kyung sim at the white house the koreans
for united freedom
kuf a north korean terrorist group led
by kanye sac
rikun mounts an air attack with an
ac-130 gunship
and hundreds of ground assault
mercenaries to capture the building
killing most of the white house
defending workforce
aided by rogue members of the prime
minister's own detail
including former secret service agent
turned private contractor dave
forbes dylan mcdermott they hold asher
and several top officials hostage in the
peoc
where lee is executed on live video
before being killed
agent roma cole hauser alerts secret
service director lynn jacobs
angela bassett that olympus has fallen
banning joins the white house's
defenders during kuf's initial assault
he falls back into the white house
disabling internal surveillance and
gaining access to asher's satellite
earphone
which he uses to maintain contact with
jacobs and speaker of the house alan
trumbull
morgan freeman now acting president in
the pentagon's emergency briefing room
kong uses asher's hostage status to
force trumbull to withdraw
the seventh fleet and u.s forces from
the korean peninsula
thus removing american opposition of a
third korean war
and seeks to detonate the american
nuclear arsenal turning the united
states into an irradiated wasteland in
revenge for his mother's death
to do this he requires access codes to
the cerberus system
held only by asher secretary of defense
ruth macmillan
melissa leo and chairman of the joint
chiefs admiral joseph honig
james ingersoll all of whom are inside
the peoc
asher orders mcmillan and hoenig to
reveal their codes to save their lives
certain that he will not give up his own
code authorized to proceed
banning's first act is to save connor
whom kong plans to use to force asher to
reveal his cerberus code
vanning finds conor hiding in the
building's walls and sneaks him to
safety
on reconnaissance banning kills several
of the terrorists
including forbes army chief of staff
general edward clegg
robert forster convinces trumbull to
order an aerial seal assault on the
white house
the kuf discovers the assault force and
activates the advanced hydra 6
anti-aircraft system
kong retaliates by executing vice
president charlie rodriguez
phil austin after banning disables
kang's communications
kong tries to execute macmillan outside
the white house in front of the media
but banning rescues her banning takes
out most of kuf
as they retreat back to the bunker with
the kuf dwindling
kong fakes his and asher's death by
sacrificing several of his commandos and
the remaining hostages in a helicopter
explosion however banning sees through
the ruse
having two of the codes to cerberus
already he eventually cracks asher's
code using a brute force attack and
activates the system
as kong and his remaining men in the kuf
attempt to escape
banning ambushes and kills all of them
except kong
after asher is shot banning confronts
and engages in hand-to-hand combat with
kong
asher momentarily distracts kong thus
helping banning in killing him
after asher informs him of cerberus
banning disables it with the assistance
of trumbull and his staff
banning escorts asher out of the white
house as the latter receives medical
attention
afterwards banning is reappointed to the
head of the president's security detail
as asher speaks to everyone of the
aftermath of the attack